a light infantry always welcome the
sight of a Sherman tank it's combination
of speed firepower and quick repair made
it an invaluable ground weapon Medal of
Honor frontline is the 4th game in the
Medal of Honor series released for
PlayStation 2 Xbox and Gamecube as
something of the consoles reply to its
PC counterpart a light assault it's not
quite as refined or technically
proficient as a light assault that is a
console shooter it's up there with the
best of them and still a great game that
lets you frolic around multiple European
locations shooting things like it's
going out of fashion like most of the
other games in the series you just play
as a faceless voiceless marine taking on
missions around Europe as you fight the
neverending forces of Nazi Germany in
this case you're a dude named Jimmy
given a series of missions to undertake
with constantly changing objectives and
play styles some missions require you to
sneak around disguised as a Nazi officer
destroyed important military resources
to cripple the enemy or just move
through a level in a linear fashion
shooting everything that gets in your
way you always have a series of
objectives that need to be completed
before you can move on to the next level
though there's a mostly often write on
the beaten path and you can't really
miss them if you tried this constant
shift in gameplay and mission to mission
is the game's biggest strength and
something that keeps you engaged when
you finish a particularly tiresome
mission you can at least take solace in
the fact that the next mission isn't
just going to be more of the same
occasionally you're given a small group
of allies to fight alongside with now
these guys take out the odd enemy every
now and then which is nice but in some
of the more cramped urban areas they're
just more good at getting in your way
than anything else
most of the level that well put together
though sometimes it can also be a little
hard to tell where you're supposed to go
next as the way forward isn't entirely
clear if you do get stuff that you can
press the select button and the game's
even kind enough to tell you what you're
supposed to do next
prepares to gain frontline does a pretty
decent job of the amount of missions on
offer you'll see some pretty varied
locations as you progress through the
campaign the real standout is the
opening d-day mission something that was
truly impressive on the PC back in the
day the in front line they've done an
admirable job of recreating this
historical event with the limitations of
the console can be a bit up and down
however and there's some really low
polygon areas with crappy layouts that
stick out like a sore thumb but most
levels and animations are pretty good
across the board with some nicely
detailed weapon and character models I
mean it's not as well rounded or
extensive as the PC version but it's
still pretty damn impressive and fun to
play heightened again by the fantastic
sound design that's prevalent in almost
every single game in the series
you'll also move through villages the
French countryside and all manner of
Nazi facilities and compounds as you'd
expect the enemy roster entirely
consists of infantry units different
ranking soldiers with unique weapons and
appearances these guys are all pretty
easier to take you out though later in
the game they do get the ability to kind
of hop around a bit when they're
attacking you making accurate shots a
little bit trickier they also gain the
innate and annoying ability to survive
multiple headshots or say a point-blank
range shotgun blast to the chest now I
get that as you go on they're supposed
to be tougher and all that but come on a
load of buckshot to the chest you've
pretty much put an end to things half
the time enough there's guys off their
feet with a sniper round of shotgun
thinking you've finished them off but
they just end up getting back to their
feet a few seconds later doing running
back to firing at you as if it's nothing
but then I guess this is probably the
only sensible way that could have
increased the difficulty in the campaign
also I should mention that in the last
few levels there's a huge difficulty
spike and you're probably gonna get your
ass handed to you more than once but
overall I don't really have an issue
with the shooting for the most part in
fact it's actually kind of easy to come
to grips with and I got the hang of it
pretty early in when firing from the hip
your shot aren't entirely accurate that
you can bring a crosshair up with the
press of the left trigger allowing you
to be a bit more precise and go for that
much-needed head shot
you can't however strike when you're in
this aiming mode making you something of
a sitting duck
now this can make the shooting seem
somewhat slower than other games coupled
with the fact that Jimmy reloads and
swaps weapons out like a senior citizen
but it is keeping in touch with the
game's realistic feel and thankfully
this mechanic also applies to the
enemies so at least it's somewhat
balanced it's not the time again we're
gonna be bunny hopping around and
spraying your mp40 like a madman let me
put it that way now I said earlier that
it has a great variety in the missions
which is true though this doesn't mean
that every mission is perfect in fact
the quality kind of goes back and forth
constantly I find that the missions
where you do a little more than search
and destroy are the weakest in the game
they just built the most derivative and
it's the kind of thing you've seen a
hundred times before you know the time
you know make your way to point a man
the mg42 plant some c4 blah blah blah
take out the guns that kind of crap but
this kind of shit was played out even
for its time and it hasn't entirely aged
missions where you get to do stuff like
taking on enemy disguises and are
actually required to do something more
creative is where the game still holds
up like the one where you've taken out
Nazis in a moving train as you hunt down
a highly ranked officer or the one where
you're trapped inside a cramped
submarine sabotaging it before making an
explosive escape if every mission was
like this it would have been much better
off but these kind of generic half-assed
levels are what really drags the game
down it's not that they're bad but it's
just that you've seen it all before and
it's mediocrity seems even more
prevalent by today's standards
considering the abundance of military
shooters that are currently played in
the industry at the end of the day
though this is still one of the best
games in the series and arguably one of
the best Medal of Honor games for the
consoles if you can overlook the dated
visuals the game still does kick all
kinds of ass in certain missions and it
can still provide six or seven hours of
entertainment as you make your way
through its campaign after this game the
series kind of lost its way for the
consoles and PC and in the next video
I'll take a look at the next game series
Rising Sun and we'll see how it all fare